
This is a profile list for characters in The Dark Hordes. It has two purposes: providing some exposition for players and possible future maintainers, and serving as a guide for any possible future portrait artists.

1. Main characters
---------------------------------------

1.1
Gwiti Ha'atel

Not your average necromancer. Gwiti and his brother Nati both killed themselves in an arcane ritual and sacrificed their souls to quickly gain more power than any normal practitioner of necromancy can hope to achieve, though they still look human and living. Both wear rather elaborate costumes, which is especially noticeable on the lower levels, as initiates are generally clothed in rags. Gwiti's clothing emphasises the colour red, though this is a result of team colour and can be changed to another if needed.

<Insert summary of actions before and during campaign here>

...

1.2
Tanar

Chieftain of a clan of orcs, Tanar is more intelligent and thoughtful than most orcish warriors. Driven from their home by relentless dwarvish assaults (who, unknown to the orcs, are themselves fleeing from their former homes), Tanar runs into Gwiti. They join forces to eradicate the dwarves.

While Tanar successfully ensures the survival of his clan, and manages to subdue various other clans in the north, he does so with the help of Gwiti, undermining his image as a leader, while among the subdued clans, there is a lot of distrust of the undead.

He does not have the force of personality to unite all the clans into a Great Horde. Instead, he leads a loose coalition of squabbling chieftains, that he barely keeps from engaging in outright warfare with each other, keeping them in line only with the promise of easy conquest in lands already weakened by undead raids.

Once the hordes encounter fleeing and infighting undead, they are done with him, and Tanar is immediately assassinated by a lieutenant of a chieftain of one of the clans he absorbed.

2. Supporting characters
---------------------------------------
2.1
Nati Ha'atel



2.2
Morgorath

A powerful lich from long ago, who got closer to true immortality than most. Known for carving various spells into his bones, which made them valuable artifacts after he was destroyed.

Gwiti is directed to "the Skull of Morgorath" by a shade early in the campaign, but this turns out to be only half of the skull, which renders it mostly useless. Later, he finds the other half, and immediately after combining the halves, he can utilize some of Morgorath's power. (currently the omni-plague ability)

This is not the whole truth however. Morgorath managed to attach his consciousness to his skull, and once it is reunited, he slowly recovers, knitting the spells supporting his lichdom back together. This is why the skull was broken to begin with: only by breaking his skull into multiple pieces could he be defeated.

Gwiti's continuous use of the powers of the skull allows Morgorath to draw on his magic to restore himself, and during the battle at Dan'Tonk, Morgorath finally pulls together some bones, and reassumes proper physical form. He thanks Gwiti for his service, treating him like a new apprentice. When Gwiti balks at this, Morgorath demands his submission, wrests control of a number of undead, and becomes hostile.

2.3
Crelanu

A mage living in the early days of Wesnoth, he was well known for his breadth of magical knowledge, even among Dwarves and Elves. While not a necromancer himself, a lot of his most powerful spells and potions involved necromantic magic. Given the time period (he gives away his book in 20 YW, as an old man), his knowledge of the Ruby of Fire, and his relationship with Haldric I (used to be friends), it is quite likely he studied under the great Lich-Lords of the Wesfolk. Crelanu's book is likely to be the only place on the Great Continent where the (part of) knowledge of the Lich-Lords can be found.

Crelanu's Book is introduced by Legend of Wesmere, given to Delfador in Delfador's Memoirs, where it is hinted Asheviere took it for a while.
The storytxt of "Crelanu's Book" implies that Ravanal turned to evil after perusing the book.
