Writing up a rought draft of the storyline here.

Setting: around 1100 YW, currently placed in the northwestern parts in and out
 of wesnoth. (or that's where it starts)

Crelanu's Book is introduced by Legend of Wesmere, given to Delfador in 
Delfador's Memoirs, where it is hinted Asheviere took it for a while.
The storytxt of "Crelanu's Book" implies that Ravanal turned to evil after
perusing the book.

Part 1 name: something with escaping and running (Escape the Living?)
Part 2 name: something with striking back at wesnoth (The Death March?)

Scenario 9 (Underground River) outline:
-During the scenario, the cave gets re-flooded by magical means. (drowning!)
-Naga swim around in the water, trying to claim the cave.
-The dwarves that haven't run from the floods yet have no intention of leaving.
    (say they're in a small part of the cave that is separated by chasm)
-Plenty of other annoying things.

gwiti studies the book for a while

*** Split between campaign parts here (09x) ***

Scenario 10: gwiti goes north to find the other half of the skull.
-possible re-encounter with leganoth
-possibly using powers from the tome for the first time <- recruit ghouls
At some point, Gwiti retrieves the other half of the Skull of Morgorath,
 whether he is then revived or it becomes an artifact of great power is yet to
be decided. (preferably the latter)

... Tanar is left north to gather more orcish forces

Scenario 11? 12? 13?: After retrieving the Skull, Gwiti moves to strike at
wesnoth. Remembering his fight with Aretu, he decides to first get rid of the
High Council of Arch Magi in Alduin.
-Approach: gwiti's army sails to the western shore of the island, gwiti and
 skeletons wade to shore under cover of darkness. Rest of army needs to arrive
by ship. No recruiting until you capture a keep.
-Suprise: the magi don't react until their first attack (assassinations work)
-Map: possibly a rework of HttT3 (half a millennium later, changes are fine)
-Story: some aren't there or are hidden, the survivors send Elynia after Gwiti

...
Gwiti makes landfall on mainland
...
march towards weldyn
...
Scenario ??: An elvish force lead by Elynia launches a surprise attack at Gwiti
 near the crossroads.
...
Plan for march at weldyn here, possible grand battle with crown prince (under
blackened sky), but we'd need some reason for gwiti to not have succesfully
conquered wesnoth now. (or to pursue the fleeing king delvhar)
--
Tanar's armies arrive and either decides to betray gwiti or his armies don't
feel like sharing power with undead.
--OR--
Morgorath awakens and decides to get rid of this upstart who dares to command
 him.
Let's go with the second, we can throw Tanar (or a surviving lieutenant, if
 you got him kill) in later.
...
Weakened both militarily and physically, (attempting to control Morgorath)
 Gwiti flees. (where?)



Gwiti's death (possible end of the campaign): by the hands of Elynia,
 who later becomes the lady of light.
At the start of the scenario, Elynia says that one of the two must die there.
Gwiti replies that one will indeed die, and the other will live forever.

When Elynia kills Gwiti, (how to write that into this campaign I don't know)
 he stays true to his word and curses Elynia:
    to live until no living things remain
As Shadow Master wrote it: http://wesnoth.pastebin.com/m38a523dd

